---
title: Project 2 - Exoplanet Habitability
date: 2024-02-19
categories: 
tags: # TAG names should always be lowercase
math: true
image:
  path: /assets/proxima.jpg
---

## Introduction to the Data
I found a data set that consists of roughly 4,000 planets outside of our Solar System. The dataset has 112 columns which cover statistcs for both a planet and its nearest star. Some of these include: gravity, distance from star, temperature, star type and wether or not the planet is within the habitible zone. Most importantly, there is a column making an estimate on the habitability of the planet. With this dataset, I would like to make a classification model to predict the habitability of any given exoplanet.
## Pre-processing
Overall, this data set was already very clean. Out of 112 columns, 11 were 100% null. 2 columns had a mix of null values and data. These columns were planet temperature (8% null) and star type (66% null). P_TEMPERATURE is still useable, and I would expect it to be an important colum for this prediction, so it will stay. S_TYPE is redundant and will be removed, as there is already another column in the set called S_TEMP_TYPE, which is 100% complete. Other than this, I removed a few uncessary columns that consisted of planet and star names. 

Next, I used dummies to set columns with the type 'object' to boolean values. WIP NOTE: more columns may need to be pruned, I have a ton now.

Lastly, set x to be habitability, y to every other column, then split the data into training and testing sets. I chose a split of 80% training to 20% testing. 
## Data Visualization
## Impact
## References 
[Data](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/chandrimad31/phl-exoplanet-catalog/data)
## Code

