---
title: Project 4 - Heart Disease Clustering
date: 2024-04-12
categories: 
tags: # TAG names should always be lowercase
math: true
image:
  path: /assets/heart.png
---

## Introduction
Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the United States, with nearly 700,000 people dying from it every year. With this project, I plan to cluster patients into heart disease risk groups.
## What is Clustering?
## The Data
The dataset I am using contains anonymous data from over 1000 patients. The factors included are:
1. age
2. sex
3. chest pain type (4 values)
4. resting blood pressure
5. serum cholestoral in mg/dl
6. fasting blood sugar > 120 mg/dl
7. resting electrocardiographic results (values 0,1,2)
8. maximum heart rate achieved
9. exercise induced angina
10. oldpeak = ST depression induced by exercise relative to rest
11. the slope of the peak exercise ST segment
12. number of major vessels (0-3) colored by flourosopy
13. thal: 0 = normal; 1 = fixed defect; 2 = reversable defect
## Pre-Processing
In pre-processing, the first thing I did was check for null data. This data set is very clean, as there are no null values in the entire set.
## Modeling
## Analysis
## Impact
With proper risk analysis for heart disease, we can ensure that people recieve treatment and combat the heart diease epidemic in the United States. On the other hand, if the risk assessments for any heart disease project are incorrect, it could cause massive issues. Estimations of little risk could make people less likely to seek medical help.
## References
[Kaggle link](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/johnsmith88/heart-disease-dataset/data)
## Code
